Radar project

-Often use FMCW:
Transforming this high-level idea into a practical sys-
tem, however, requires addressing multiple challenges.
First, measuring the time of flight is difficult since RF
signals travel very fast – at the speed of light. To distin-
guish between two locations that are closer than one foot
apart, one needs to measure differences in reflection time
on the order of hundreds of picoseconds, which is quite
challenging. To address this problem, we leverage a tech-
nique called FMCW (frequency modulated carrier wave)
which maps differences in time to shifts in the carrier fre-
quency; such frequency shifts are easy to measure in radio
systems by looking at the spectrum of the received signal.


-Multipath
A second challenge stems from multipath effects,
which create errors in mapping the delay of a reflection
to the distance from the target. WiTrack has to deal with
two types of multipath effects. Some multipath effects are
due to the transmitted signal being reflected off walls and
furniture. Others are caused by the signal first reflecting
off the human body then reflecting off other objects. This
is further complicated by the fact that in non-line-of-sight
settings, the strongest signal is not the one directly bounc-
ing off the human body. Rather it is the signal that avoids
the occluding object by bouncing off some side walls.
WiTrack eliminates reflections from walls and furniture
by noting that their distance (and time of flight) does not
change over time. Hence, they can be eliminated by sub-
tracting consecutive frames of the signals. Reflections that
involve a combination of a human and some static object
are more complex and are addressed through filters that
account for practical constraints on the continuity of hu-
man motion and its speed in indoor settings.
Hence, we eliminate the power from these static reflec-
tors by simply subtracting the output of the FFT in a given
sweep from the FFT of the signal in the previous sweep.
This process is called background subtraction because it
eliminates all the static reflectors in the background.


-Direction
WiTrack has one antenna for transmission and three an-
tennas for receiving. At a high level, WiTrack’s motion
tracking works as follows. The device transmits a radio
signal and uses its reflections to estimate the time it takes
the signal to travel from the transmitting antenna to the re-
flecting object and back to each of the receiving antennas.
WiTrack then uses its knowledge of the position of the an-
tennas to create a geometric reference model, which maps
the round trip delays observed by the receive antennas to
a 3D position of the reflecting body
Interpolation and filtering.


-Applications:
    -virtual reality and gaming systems
    -fall detection
    -controlling appliances by pointing at them


-downsides
    -works for only moving targets

 A second limitation stems from the
fact that WiTrack needs the user to move in order to locate
her. This is because WiTrack receives reflections from all
static objects in the environment; hence, it cannot distin-
guish the static user from a piece of furniture. To elimi-
nate these static reflectors, WiTrack subtracts consecutive
FMCW sweeps. Unfortunately, that eliminates the reflec-
tions of the static user as well. Future research may ad-
dress this issue by having WiTrack go through a training
period where the device is first presented with the space
without any user so that it may learn the TOFs of the
static objects. Naturally, this would require retraining ev-
ery time the static objects are moved in the environment

Tracking one person: Our current design can track only
one person at any point in time. This does not mean that
WiTrack requires only one person to be present in the en-
vironment. Other people can be around, but they have to
7 To enable WiTrack to track through thicker walls such as concrete
(as in WiVi), one may add a filter to remove the wall’s reflection.
be behind the directional antennas. We believe that this
limitation is not fundamental to the design of WiTrack
and can be addressed as the research evolves. Consider
for example, the case of two moving humans. In this case,
each antenna has to identify two concurrent TOFs (one for
each person), and hence two ellipsoids. To eliminate the
ambiguity, one may use more antennas which add more
constraints to the system.

-Breathing/ vascular monitoring
Radar-based remote monitoring of vital signs usually relies
on the phase analysis of the received signal from a given target
of interest. In the specific case of breathing and heartbeat
monitoring, the transmitted waveform is phase-modulated by
the chest-wall displacement caused by the periodic movement
of the diaphragm and the heart. Figure 1 shows the standard
block diagram for the receiver of a phase coded pulse-based
radar system. Following the transmission of N pulses during
a Coherent Processing Interval (CPI), the received waveform
is down-converted to baseband and sampled at the receiver
front end. The resultant I/Q samples usually undergo some pre-
processing operations before the range/angle matched filtering
and detection






